**Proposal: Defense-Oriented Software Framework for Physical Unclonable
Function (PUF) Emulation and Analysis (PPET)**

**Introduction:**

Physical Unclonable Functions (PUFs), introduced by Pappu in 2001,
leverage uncontrollable manufacturing variations in hardware to create
unique and unrepeatable digital \"fingerprints.\" These fingerprints are
vital for secure key generation, device authentication, and tamper
resistance.

In defense and national security contexts, PUFs are critical for
securing military-grade systems, ensuring the authenticity of hardware
in supply chains, and protecting classified communications. Despite
their importance, current PUF research is constrained by its reliance on
hardware-based experimentation, requiring costly equipment and
expertise. Existing tools, such as
[**pypuf**](https://pypuf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), focus primarily on
academic and general-purpose research, overlooking the specific
requirements of defense applications.

**Proposal:**

This project proposes the development of an **open-source,
defense-oriented PUF emulation framework** designed to simulate and
evaluate PUF architectures specifically for military and national
security applications. This Python-based tool will not only simulate PUF
behavior but also incorporate:

1.  Advanced threat modeling to simulate real-world attacks on PUF
    systems (e.g., machine learning, side-channel attacks).

2.  Defense-specific use cases, such as tamper-proof communication
    devices, secure satellite systems, and authentication for unmanned
    systems (drones, robotics).

A complementary analysis module, powered primarily by Matplotlib, will
enable visualization and evaluation of PUF performance in simulated
operational environments, with metrics tailored for defense
applications.

**Key Metrics Evaluated:**

1.  **Uniqueness:** Ensuring the fingerprint uniqueness across devices
    for reliable identification.

    a.  Histograms

    b.  Scatterplots

    c.  X-Axis

        i.  Pairwise comparison index (PUF A vs. PUF B, etc.)

    d.  Y-Axis

        i.  Hamming distance between responses

2.  **Reliability:** Evaluating CRP stability under conditions
    simulating military stressors, such as extreme temperatures,
    electromagnetic interference, and aging.

    a.  Graphical Analysis:

        i.  Boxplots: Compare the response reliability of different PUF
            instances under varying noise levels. Each boxplot
            represents the distribution of bit errors for a specific
            noise level.

        ii. Line Graphs: Plot the reliability percentage (or error rate)
            against increasing noise levels or environmental
            variability.

        iii. Heatmaps: Show reliability variations across multiple PUF
             instances and challenges.

3.  **Bit-Aliasing Analysis:**

    a.  Metric: Bit aliasing measures how often a specific bit position
        in a response matches across multiple PUF instances for the same
        challenge.

    b.  Graphical Analysis:

    c.  Heatmaps: Visualize bit-aliasing across multiple challenges and
        instances. Each cell represents the frequency of a bit being
        \"0\" or \"1\" at a given position.

    d.  Bar Graphs: Show the aliasing frequency for specific bit
        positions.

**Metric Tools and Libraries:**

-   Matplotlib

    -   For bar graphs, scatterplots, line graphs and heat maps

-   Seaborn

    -   For more advanced statistical visualizations like boxplot or
        heatmaps

-   Plotly

    -   Needed for 3D visualization

**Impact:**

1.  **National Security Applications:**

    a.  Simulate PUFs for critical military systems requiring highly
        secure authentication (e.g., battlefield IoT, secure satellite
        networks).

    b.  Model supply chain attacks to test hardware integrity in
        procurement pipelines.

2.  **Advanced Threat Analysis:**

    a.  Simulate modern attack vectors, such as side-channel and machine
        learning-based attacks, and evaluate PUF resilience.

3.  **Scalable Defense Research:**

    a.  Enable large-scale simulation of PUF architectures for
        tamper-proof authentication in defense networks and critical
        infrastructure.

**Deliverables:**

1.  **Defense-Specific PUF Emulator:**

    a.  A Python library simulating advanced PUF architectures (for ex.,
        SRAM, Arbiter, Ring Oscillator) with specific focus on
        operational stressors.

    b.  Incorporation of defense-specific environmental variables, such
        as extreme operational temperatures and interference.

2.  **Threat Simulation and Analysis:**

    a.  Modules to simulate adversarial attacks, such as machine
        learning modeling of CRPs and physical tampering scenarios.

    b.  Tools for visualizing security metrics (for ex., uniqueness,
        reliability) under adversarial conditions using Matplotlib.

3.  **Use Cases for Military and Defense:**

    a.  Examples and scenarios highlighting PUF applications in secure
        communication systems, drone authentication, and
        tamper-resistant IoT.

    b.  Detailed threat and resilience reports for defense use cases.